ANIMA Conference Call
28 Aug 2014, 6am GMT

Participants:
  Brian Carpenter
  Bing Liu
  Dan Romascanu
  Laurent Ciavaglia
  Leo Dorrendorf
  Sheng Jiang
  Yu Fu
  Toerless Eckert

Todo:
 Brian: Next week, invite NMRG chairs to the meeting to discuss charter with
        them.
 Laurent: Reach out to Dimitri see if he can join the calls.
 Try to have charter feedback be more precise on individual points to
 be fixed so we can step by step stabilize it.
 Brian: volunteered to do next charter version


Notes:

Discussing charter:
 http://trac.tools.ietf.org/bof/anima/trac/wiki/DraftCharter

 Reviewing latest charter and asking for comments:

 Problem statement:
   Bing Liu - 
   Dan Romascanu - OK
   Laurent Ciavaglia -
     Not very specific to autonomic networking.
     Will provide text to improve problem statement on list to
     improve text on second problem point of operator dependency
   Leo Dorrendorf:
     Ok with problem stateent, primarily concerned about security
   Sheng Jiang
     Ok with text in problem statement but missing self-managing properties.
   Yu Fu
     Would like to discuss in more detail which functions to be done
     distributed in network.
  
  Goal section was moved up in the charter.

  Brian: Do not have Dimitry / Rene on the call. Not clear if we can get
  these fixed without them on the call.
    ... Charter not precise enough. Strong opinions about what
    autonomic is and what it is not - eg: closed loops
  Sheng: improve draft charter - explain why we want reuseable components
    first. Current charter a bit closed. Have not mentioned other use-cases,
    autonomic services agents. Just not in initial milestones. Maybe
    say they would be adopted once there is consenus to adopt use cases.
  
  Toerless: how to put into charter best compromise between executeable
    targets and openness to vet/accept new use-cases.

  Dan: Two priorities: a) executing milestones, b) discussing additional work.

  Brian: Would also need to refine relationship/work with NMRG.
  NMRG should vet charter and could also identify work items better
  positioned for NMRG.

  Sheng: Specific solution proposal should be in IETF/Anima. Model ,
  architecture, study of use-cases maybe better in NMRG ?
  Brian: Probaby good idea, invite NMRG chairs.


  Areas of currently not covered areas: Should these be covered in Agenda
  as area for study within the WG ?

    1. More use cases for agents.

    2. From  Dimitri, generic control loop.

    3. Brian: Do not mention policy intent into the agents. Not yet in charter.
       Toerless: network wide versions of YANG/Netconf interface modes would
       likely be the direction to do this.

  Dan: Maybe not use name of individual contribution drafts ?
  Brian: Existing drafts are mentioned as starting points.

  Laurent: should try to stability part by part of the charter.
  Brian: yes, agreed.

  Brian: Wants to review all mails on list

Timing of conference calls: Sheng: Rene attended the other time slot.
Dimitri is in Brussels. Laurent will reach out to Dimitri to see if
he can attend.
