---
title: IETF 113 WG High Level Summaries
description: 
published: true
date: 2022-12-20T02:39:26.368Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-12-20T02:39:22.691Z
---

# IETF 113 - Vienna (hybrid)

This provides a very short summary of discussions and decisions in each WG.

## ANIMA

ANIMA met in hybrid mode, with the meetecho bluesheet listing 32 participants. One chair (toerless) was local and counted 10 people in the room, the other chair remote (sheng). Since IETF112, 2 new WG drafts where adopted. At IETF113, the WG had 11 WG drafts, 9 of which had received work/updates since IETF112, all of which received review/discussions during the WG meeting. One WG draft is in expired state due to other drafts receiving authors priority. Before IETF113, a Hackathon did occur for which also an update was given. Three new individual drafts where proposed to the WG. Directly after IETF113, RFC9222 was published.

## BMWG

BMWG met in Hybrid Mode, with about 22 people attending: most remote and 4 in-person, and without drama. The EVPN draft is officially Dead. Co-chair Sarah took the action to update the milestones. The WG drafts are both proceeding: MLRsearch is undergoing re-write for clarity (example results should be explained better). The Network Security Device authors will update their draft and try to resolve DISCUSSes incrementally. One DISCUSS requires TSV-dir re-review, and need to contact Tommy Pauly about this.

There are some good proposals to resolve The Objection on WG Adoption for the YANG Model Draft (Title). Good progress on stateful NATxy draft (Action to try for Adoption). Lots of new material and testing by the Containewrized networking team. Two New Proposals on Segment Routing, for MPLS and IPv6, respecitively. Both SR drafts need to follow updates to RFC 2544: Many sections have been updated by later RFCs (e.g., RFC 8912 for Latency) and ETSI NFV TST009 for virtualized DUT Benchmarking.

## DIME

## DNSOP

DNSOP met this week in hybrid mode. The biggest topic was the idea of creating a BCP of all existing DNSSEC documents. Warren our AD brought it forward to gauge how the working group feels about this. DNSOP will start adopting work this week as well, and there is a backlog. There were many documents presented that were in the -00 state, which reflects on our interims.

## GROW

GROW heard updates on two BMP (BGP Monitoring Protocol) drafts, and a suggestion to take on new protocol work: NRTMv4 (Near Real Time Mirroring, a replication protocol for Internet Routing Registries). The hybrid meeting model seemed to work really well: presenters, and audience (both remote and local) were able to communicate with ease with each other. All good, fun session!

## IOTOPS

## MBONED

MBONED met as planned. Main agenda item was an update on the Multicast to the Browser efforts- updates to the 4 drafts as well as W3C activities. Also, brief mention of IPv6 AMT demo during the hackathon. Redundant Ingress Router draft in WG adoption call, Yang models draft authors seeking one more review before requesting WGLC.

## MOPS

Work is progressing as planned: MOPS had an update on related media activities at the Streaming Video Alliance, and an awareness update on the recent DASH/WebRTC report (â€‹https://dashif.org/webRTC/#documents). Discussed updates on and new directions for the current WG document, and reviewed recent AD comments on the WG document submitted to the IESG earlier this year.

## NETCONF

The WG is still trying to wrap up work on the "Client Server" suite of drafts. The UDP notification draft was presented again, but the latest version of the draft lacks an example of how DTLS needs to be configured. Comments were also provided for the draft-ietf-netconf-distributed-notif draft, and requires an update.

There were four individual I-D presentations. The per-node capabilities draft from Benoit had some traction within the WG, while adaptive subscriptions had a few objections that remain unresolved. The problem statement and use case document for adaptive traffic data collection could help, once it has been improved. Qin has offered to help. Finally, the transaction-id mechanism also got some traction within the WG, though it might need a new title and a rewrite.

## NETMOD

## OPSAWG

Opsawg was business as usual. The Ops Area open mic saw an issue raised about assertive policy text in various drafts. The ADs commented that they can apply DISCUSS power if OPS DIR identifies parts that seem overly onerous to operators.

## OPSEC

## RADEXT

## SIDROPS

## V6OPS

V6ops met as planned, and discussed the items on the agenda.

No big news, but continuing slogging on.


&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;

---

*The content of this page was last updated on 2022-04-06. It was migrated from the old Trac wiki on 2022-12-19.*